# Product_Profit_Report_Description
## Excel
In this report, I extracted information through Excel files for the products which were collected through the sales team at the Elgarhy Dairy Products Factory, which recorded the daily sales of each item and the daily profit. I collected that data in one Excel sheet through two columns, one for the production cost and the other for the total sale during the month for each product. Then I made a column to calculate Net profit by subtracting the total sale from the total production cost, then I calculated the percentage of profit for each product in relation to the selling price, and here the role of Excel ended.
## Power_BI
Then I opened Power BA and added the Excel file inside it and created a Power Query to calculate the profit percentage for each product out of the total profit for all products. I made 5 illustrations, the first to display the net profit for each item to know the largest product achieving net profit. On the same page, I made a second drawing to display the profit percentage of the selling price to know which product achieves the greatest profit with the least number of sales in order to work to increase the sale of this product, You can see what I have done through the attached file in the project or through Image Number (1).

Then on the second page, I made a line chart to display the net profit with the number of sales, and I made a bar chart to display the cost of production with the selling price to know which product’s profit was much higher than the number of sales, which indicates the profitability of this product. I made a slicer to choose a specific product to know the details of its profit and production ..etc, and you can see what I have done through the report or through Image Number (2 & 3).

Finally, I made a pie chart to show the percentage of profit of each product out of the total profit of the products to know which product has the highest percentage and which product has the lowest percentage. You can see that chart through the report too or through image Number (4).
Then I showed this report to my manager and presented the final picture of the products, which may help increase profit this month and this year.
